Last we talked about doing
authentication things like
middleware to protect
different API routes, and
creating JSON web tokens that we can
issue to new users or returning users.
Now we need to do the other side and
allow users to be created and
allow users to come back and
actually receive a JSON Web Token.
So that's what we're going to do.
So we know from our schema that
a user needs a unique username and
a password in order for
them to be created.
So what we wanna do is create a handler
for the user, so they can do that.
But before we can do that, we're
gonna need some helper functions that
we're gonna use to hash a user's password,
so we don't store them as
plain text in the database.
Storing a user's password as plain text
in a database is no longer practice.
Because if someone gets
access to your database,
they get access to your users passwords,
you're just done.
So you're better off not
knowing your users passwords.
So we do that by hashing them,
so that's what we're gonna do.
So what we're gonna do is
go back into auth, and
we're gonna do some stuff with bcrypt.
So, you can go to auth, I'm already here,
and you can import, okay.
You can import bcrypt from bcrypt,
like that.
I'm gonna make a function called,
comparePasswords, like that.
And it's gonna take two arguments.
It's going to take the plain text password
that someone is trying to sign in with.
So we're gonna use comparePasswords
function when someone tries to sign in.
So we're gonna take the password
they're sending us in plain text and
compare it to the password that's hashed,
that's saved in the database,
to see if they're the same.
So we're gonna take the plaintext password
and we're gonna take the hashed password.
Or hash.
And then it's gonna return
bcrypt.compare Password,hash.
This is gonna return a promise
that returns true or false,
if password that they pass, it matches
this hash, that was also passed too.
So that's for sign in.
And then for
the initial hashing of your password,
we can just call another function,
we'll call this one hashPassword.
This one just takes in
a plain text password,
and it's just going to return
bcrypt.hash password, like that.
Need an h in hash.
Yeah, that makes a big difference.
[LAUGH] That'd be a whole
different function.
Yeah, just make sure we export these
things, put export in front of them.
Okay.
Yeah, I guess, in order to be super safe,
we wanna add a salt, which is a number.
How do I explain a salt?
Salt is like second ingredient,
I think that's why they call it a salt.
[LAUGH] So,
hashing is an algorithm that spits out,
almost kind of like what we did for Json.
We're talking a deterministic
value based off some input,
and salt is just an extra
variable to give you
a different variety of that output.
So, it's basically just makes
the hash harder to guess,
because people do brute force attacks,
where they just run every
possible combination until they
can guess the hash, right?
By adding a salt,
it just makes it exponentially harder for
that person to do that, it went from,
maybe this was gonna take 100
million requests to 100 million
times to the power of 10 or
something like that,
that's what a salt does.
It just makes it exponentially harder or
they can just take your salt too, but
then you can generate the salt,
we're not gonna generate salts,
we're just gonna just put a number here,
I'll put 5.
So, you can put 5 [INAUDIBLE].